# About Alerts

An alert is a security event generated by detection tools such as SIEM, IDS, EDR, firewalls, or threat intelligence platforms like the Malware Information Sharing Platform (MISP). It serves as an early warning that helps analysts identify, investigate, and respond to potential threats.

Alerts are reviewed and triaged, and converted into [cases](../cases/about-cases.md) when further investigation is needed.

## Sources

!!! info "Manual alert creation impossible"
    TheHive doesn't allow manual alert creation. Alerts must originate from external tools connected to TheHive.

The following sources can create alerts:

* Detection tools, such as SIEM, IDS, EDR, and firewalls, that push data to TheHive

* <!-- md:version 5.5 --> External systems from which TheHive retrieves data using [alert feeders](../../../user-guides/organization/configure-organization/manage-feeders/about-feeders.md)

* Threat intelligence platforms like [MISP](../../../administration/misp-integration/about-misp-integration.md) connected to TheHive

* [Email servers](../../../administration/email-intake-connector/about-email-intake-connectors.md) from which TheHive retrieves data.

## Key components

In TheHive, an alert includes the following elements:

* [Observables](../cases/observables/about-observables.md): Data points such as IP addresses, file hashes, domains, and email addresses that are relevant to an investigation.

* [TTPs](../cases/ttps/about-ttps.md): The methods and strategies used by attackers, based on the [MITRE ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/){target=_blank} knowledge base.

* [Attachments](../cases/attachments/about-attachments.md): Files attached to an alert. Adding an image to an alert’s description or summary automatically saves it in the [alert’s Attachments tab](../cases/attachments/about-attachments.md#alerts). Attachments can also be [added manually](../cases/attachments/add-an-attachment-case-alert.md).

## Triage outcomes

### Creating cases from alerts

<!-- md:permission `manageAlert/import` -->

[Create cases from alerts](create-a-case-from-an-alert.md) when further investigation is needed and no related investigation is already in progress.

This action automatically creates [a link between the alert and the case](../cases/view-alerts-linked-to-a-case.md).

### Adding alerts to existing cases

<!-- md:permission `manageAlert/import` -->

[Alerts can be added to existing cases](add-an-alert-to-an-existing-case.md) if they relate to an ongoing investigation.

This action automatically creates [a link between the alert and the case](../cases/view-alerts-linked-to-a-case.md).

### Closing alerts

<!-- md:permission `manageAlert/update` -->

[Close alerts](../alerts/close-an-alert.md) when they are not worth escalating into a new case or an existing case for further investigation. This may happen, for example, if the alert is a false positive or a duplicate.

Closed alert can be [reopened](reopen-an-alert.md) if needed.

#### Custom fields completion

Alerts can't close if any required [custom fields](../../../administration/custom-fields/about-custom-fields.md) remain empty. Users can add or update values in custom fields during the closing process. However, they can't remove custom fields themselves.

## Statistics

[Predefined statistics in dashboards](../about-statistics.md) are available from the alerts list. For custom statistics and dashboards, refer to the [About Dashboards](../dashboard/about-dashboards.md) topic.

<h2>Next steps</h2>

* [Find an Alert](../alerts/search-for-alerts/find-an-alert.md)
* [Enrich Alert Details](./enrich-alert-details.md)
* [Assign an Alert](./assign-an-alert.md)
* [Start Investigating an Alert](../alerts/start-investigating-an-alert.md)
* [Ignore Alert Updates from MISP](ignore-alert-updates-misp.md)
* [Change an Alert Status](change-status-alert.md)
* [Create a Case from an Alert](create-a-case-from-an-alert.md)
* [Add an Alert to an Existing Case](add-an-alert-to-an-existing-case.md)
* [Close an Alert](close-an-alert.md)
* [Reopen an Alert](reopen-an-alert.md)