# About Alert Feeders

!!! note "Available from version 5.5"
    Alert feeders are available starting from version 5.5.

!!! warning "Platinum license required"
    A Platinum license is required to use alert feeders. If the license expires or becomes inactive, existing feeders will be automatically deactivated.

Alert feeders integrate external tools with TheHive without requiring them to push data. Instead, TheHive retrieves data from external systems on a scheduled basis.

The primary goal of alert feeders is to enhance TheHive’s alert ingestion capabilities while minimizing reliance on external services for data retrieval.

## Scope

While the feature is called alert feeders, it can be configured to 



The default name of the function is generated by the name of the feeder, if a feeder name is filled.
The generated function name follow the rule : Function_feeder-name (“Function_” is added at the beginning)

1 fonction per alert feeder

Functions should not be created in the functions tab, but rather in the alert feeder directly. It will then be added to the function list in the functions tab with a type feeder. Changes can then be done either from the functions list or the alert feeder configuration.

## How it works

Alert feeders introduces the possibilty to automatically request data (though a HTTP API call) from an external service, and transforms the received data into alerts, cases or tasks thanks to [functions](../manage-functions/about-functions.md).

The function has the type feeder.

Periodicity has to be configured.

## Example of usage

Jira
Airtable
IBM Radar
Rapid 7
SentinelOne

And more!

In theory, any application that exposes a public REST API allowing to get data synchronously can be integrated in TheHive thanks to Alert Feeder. 

At the moment we support only 3 authentication modes:

none

Basic (username/password)

Key (bearer tocken, api key, ..)

We will enlarge possibility with OAuth2 and other methods if requested.

## Permissions

manageConfig

## Next steps